To get this project running on any machine (your laptop or a lab computer), you need to follow these steps in order. This covers setting up the environment, organizing the files, and launching the application.

1. Prerequisites: Install Python
Ensure you have Python installed (Version 3.9 to 3.12 is recommended).

Open your terminal (Command Prompt or PowerShell on Windows).

Type python --version. If it shows a version number, you are good to go.

2. Project Folder Setup
Create a dedicated folder for this project to keep everything organized.

Create a folder named Portfolio_Optimizer.

Inside this folder, create two empty text files:

main.py

app.py

Copy and paste the Engine code into main.py and the Dashboard code into app.py.

3. Install Required Libraries
You need specific "packages" for the math and the interface to work. Run this command in your terminal inside your project folder:

Bash
pip install yfinance pandas numpy matplotlib PyPortfolioOpt streamlit plotly
What these do:
yfinance: Fetches live stock market data from Yahoo Finance.

PyPortfolioOpt: Performs the complex Markowitz math (Mean-Variance Optimization).

Streamlit: Turns your Python script into a beautiful web dashboard.

Plotly: Handles the interactive "Efficient Frontier" graph.

4. Understanding the Workflow
To explain this for a presentation or viva, you should understand how the data flows through your system:

Data Ingestion: yfinance pulls 2 years of history for the 5 tickers.

Statistical Analysis: We calculate the Expected Return (how much it might grow) and the Covariance Matrix (how the stocks move together).

Optimization: The Markowitz model finds the "Sharpe Ratio" — the point where you get the most return for the least amount of risk.

Real-Time Loop: The app.py script refreshes every 15 seconds to check if the current market prices have made your portfolio "drift" away from the optimal mix.

5. Running the Application
You do not run this project by clicking a "Play" button in an IDE like VS Code. You must run it through the Streamlit CLI:

Open your terminal in the project folder.

Run the following command:

Bash
streamlit run app.py
A local URL will appear (usually http://localhost:8501). Your browser will open automatically to show the dashboard.

6. How to Use the App
The Sidebar: Shows the Efficient Frontier. Look for the "Highest" dots; those represent the best possible return-to-risk ratio.

Rebalance Alerts: If a stock is marked "REBALANCE" in red, it means that stock is performing differently than expected, and you should consider adjusting your investment to get back to the 20% target.

Logging: Click the "Log Current Portfolio Performance" button. This creates a file named portfolio_history.csv in your folder. You can open this in Excel later to show your "trading history."

7. Final Checklist for Submission
requirements.txt: Create a file named requirements.txt and paste these lines inside. This allows others to install everything with one command (pip install -r requirements.txt).

Plaintext
yfinance
pandas
numpy
PyPortfolioOpt
streamlit
plotly
README.md: Write a short text file explaining that this is a "Real-Time Investment Portfolio Optimizer based on Modern Portfolio Theory."
